# CS-255
DriverPass requirements collection, UML diagraming, and presentation of data to non-technical audience

•	Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?

DriverPass is an organization dedicated to providing quality training to driving students pursuing their license. Establishing themselves as a staple in the driver training scene, DriverPass wanted to expand their reach via the internet. They came to us with an idea for a system that would allow their customers to access relevant quizzes and resources, book and edit their appointments online, and purchase available packages with bundles of resources at a discounted price. The system needed to be available on nearly anything with an internet browser, and intuitive enough to keep up with the demand of the potentially expanding userbase. 

•	What did you do particularly well?

Throughout the documentation process, I did a solid job of making sure that all the necessary classes and methods were accounted for. This attention to detail would work to ensure that the development team could adapt the ideas of the company into code and deploy a system that exceeded the expectations of the client. 

•	If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

I would focus my revision on the activity diagrams. I kept these portions of the documentation simplistic but at the cost of neglecting some potential features. In my initial presentation for the activity diagram on login verification, I made two factor authentication something that would only trigger when the user failed their login five times. The more practical use case for 2FA is to send a code regardless, and to send a failed login code only when applicable, and to the users email on record rather than their phone. This small oversight limits my proposal from full scale adaptability, and given another chance I would take this functionality into deeper consideration when presenting my diagrams. 

•	How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?

Our team took necessary precautions to ensure that anyone working on developing the DriverPass system would have access to a transcribed interview, which had a great impact on our ability to meticulously address all the client’s needs. This process is extremely important, as failure to consider even a single need of the client could result in a lengthy and expensive rebuild of multiple major system components to integrate this feature. I spent a lot of time carefully categorizing the needs based on whether they were functional or non-functional to the system. From there I combed through my results, writing down the components necessary to implement these needs. With this information in front of me, I was able to begin designing the UML diagrams that the system would need. 

•	How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?

My approach for designing software begins with a thorough examination of the provided documents. The best way to make sure that the entire system is being accounted for is to first understand exactly what the system must do. A UML class diagram acts as a blueprint for how the system will be designed, with the classes, methods, and connection to other classes all being laid out. With this diagram the code can start being constructed. With each class accounted for, linking the classes is the next priority of the system, followed by the design and integration of the databases that the system will interact with. Once all of the necessary components are built, the logic behind how they interact is carefully written and thoroughly tested to meet quality assurance requirements. 

When tasked with analyzing and designing another system in the future, my priority would be to nail the requirements determination phase. The work that I inherited for the DriverPass system made this transition seamless, and I would make it a point of emphasis to ensure that we have all the information we could possibly need for the system we are designing. From there I would spend as much time as given to scan over these documents to ensure that I know the requirements of the system like the back of my hand. With this information the system can start being assessed for what is functional vs non-functional. Once determined, UML diagrams are a great way to ensure that nothing is being overlooked in the proposed design for the system. Taking this work to the client for a non-technically tailored presentation is a great way of ensuring that all the needs of the system are being met. With the greenlight, my design approach would be like what is outlined above, with the diagrams being implemented into code based on a schedule for delivering the system. After each portion of the system is implemented, it will be carefully tested to ensure that it functions as intended. 
